# Programming Methodology

> Write a short essay describing what you believe good computer programming is. You should draw on your experiences in labs and on homework assignments, on the lectures, and on your Moodle discussions about programming. Answers will be evaluated for comprehensiveness, thoughtfulness, and writing quality.

Programming methodology is as important as programming itself. The analysis, design and implementation of a program are embedded in every program. I believe good computer programming should include but is not limited to many of the following aspects: the cleanness and clearness of codes, time and space efficiency, structural design and generality.

Besides producing the desired output, which serves as a basis for any program, a good program should be written in such a way that could be understood by their own designers and other programmers without much effort. This allows for maintenance and further modification to be done relatively easier. I found that every time I gave proper names to my variables and added necessary comments to the corresponding codes, it made easy for TA and me to follow, change things and debug. From a practical standpoint, this criterion also helps development of a program because people oftentimes need to collaborate on a programming project, therefore, simplicity and readability will ensure a smoother collaboration process.

Like many other things in life, programs also need to make trade offs. We don’t unlimited processing time and memory space. Thus, using less memory and improving processing time are always challenging. We can write a program that gives correct solutions, but if it takes days and weeks, the cost is too high to be acceptable. Likewise, we would always want to use the least amount of memory to handle same amount of operations. In some of our homework and also the midterm, we were asked to decide which is the best data structure and algorithm to use for a particular problem. Although our tasks were not to a scale that makes appreciable amount of difference between different choices, it is always good practice to keep in mind.

Nonetheless, the most impressive lesson I’ve learned this semester (and I appreciate that I learned this early this semester) is about modularity.  During the tutoring hour the third week into this semester—when I was struggling on HW3, Galen taught me the idea of modularity. I found it a good structure design for a program because I can achieve the result gradually and systematically by building from small blocks. This design pattern also contributes to readability and simplicity in many circumstances.

Last but not least, the latest labs, homework and project on Graph made me realize the idea of generality. We oftentimes reuse our previous works in different projects. Therefore, it would be very handy if we do not have to rewrite the entire program, instead, just making modifications from time to time. If a program is designed for a particular task, then it should be used to do similar tasks in the same field. For example, in our case, the MazeGUI once written can be used to add things we want without writing from scratch every time we need to make similar mazes.

In a nutshell, a computer program is like an instruction book for a computer to perform tasks. It is important that we form good habits of programming to make our codes more elegant, efficient and reproducible. A good program does not to have to be perfect at all of these but making wise decision upon conflicts.
